.
(Charles Aznavour)
# You are the one for me, for me
# For me, formidable
# You are my love
Very, very, very veritable
* (SIGHS)
(Berlin dialect) Let's see what
the cat has put in front of the door.
Dr. Diether Dehm,
71 years old,
Politician of the Left Party,
music producer.
Did this "1000 and one night and
it made Zoom" written,
was the manager of Katharina Witt
and Wolf Biermann.
Has been vaccinated with the Russian
Sputnik V vaccine,
insulted Foreign Minister Heiko Maas
as a well-styled NATO hustler.
Okay.
Hello, Mr. Dehm.
The "hey" referred
to well styled. - Please?
to well styled.
May I also call you
Putin hustler?
Uh... You may do anything.
As a music producer and manager
they have earned millions.
Claim.
Marxist and multimillionaire.
Isn't that like fucking
for virginity?
No, because the class struggle
against billionaires is just beginning.
Against monopolies.
I see.
Because you are a millionaire, you said:
We go for the billionaires.
I always took the position ...
If you were a billionaire now ...
Against the
State Monopolistic Capitalism,
there is "monopoly" in it,
not "entrepreneur.
Like Bertolt Brecht
entrepreneurs can ...
* Niau * There is nothing growing at all.
Starts well.
As a multimillionaire you have
nothing to do with capitalism?
Yes, one ... - Not until you're a billionaire.
Let me finish.
One can also be
be corrupted as a millionaire.
But the main enemy is the monopoly,
is the arms industry.
Those who are right ...
These are the bad guys.
The really bad ones.
But you are a saint?
On the contrary.
We're looking at...
We have only half an hour.
We have so much material.
Only half an hour? - Yes.
Ah. - In preparation
for the show I thought:
Fifteen minutes
would have been enough. - Yes?
So, what one can bear.
What one can bear. - Yes.
We look at the picture here.
* There you are posing
in Russia in front of the Marx statue,
"Proletarians of all countries,
unite."
That appeals to you, doesn't it?
No, my father ...
(laughs) You are a millionaire,
a multimillionaire even.
If you want me ...
But Marxist millionaire, M-M.
Try to..,
let me finish.
My father was a works council member,
I come from a
social democratic family.
I am sometime
out of the way
and the first,
who has become independent,
because I was not allowed to become
in Recklinghausen,
because of too close contacts
with the communists.
I had to become independent
and that's unfortunately what happened.
But when the Marxist
Revolution comes ...
There are none.
Then you are the class enemy after all.
There is
no Marxist revolution.
Then Friedrich Engels as an
entrepreneur would also have to be a class enemy.
Do you still drive the Audi quattro
as a special production? - M-m.
That was 25 years ago.
Do you have another one already?
No, for 25 years ... Yes.
And the high-quality real estate
in Frankfurt do you still have? - Yes.
(laughs) And you want to explain
something about Marxism?
Yes.
* (LAUGHING)
No tenant has complained to the
complained to the Bild newspaper.
You are with the initiative
"Wealthy
for a wealth tax". - Yes.
Why do you
not surrender the assets?
I do that occasionally,
to Cuba.
And what is the price range
do we move in?
I'm not going to tell you that.
Where does the coal come from, anyway?
From "touched 1000 times", as quoted.
From the management of BAP,
of 600 songs that I
I have written on record.
"Fist on Fist,
"What do we want to drink?".
Do we not want
establish the foundation today,
the Diether Gates Foundation?
Diether Gates Foundation? - Yes.
Very good idea,
incredible play on words.
If you become Chairman of the Supervisory Board
become Chairman of the Supervisory Board, yes.
Why don't you
the money out?
I'll knock them out,
I said.
I live relatively modestly and spend
relatively much money for world network ...
But for an Audi quattro
with special equipment is it enough?
It hasn't been for 25 years.
World Network TV,
then I also do left-wing publishers,
publish publications
and occasionally produce CDs.
But where does the coal come from?
Who did you exploit for it?
Those,
who bought my songs.
You don't get that much for that.
Back then, you got a lot of money.
I have three or four
platinum records, seven gold LPs.
Yes. They lead two lives:
Here the successful music producer
and manager,
there the networked politician.
Do you get picked on more for bad songs
or bad politics?
You think the songs are bad?
"Touched a Thousand Times"?
How old was I then?
Three, or what?
You should have been older.
When did the song come out?
In '84, that was number one.
I'm turning 47 now.
How old was I in '87? Now
let's see if you can do math.
No, I don't know,
when you were born.
I don't think I was
at the time somehow ...
Not, good. And you found the
bad in retrospect as well?
Yes.
And "fist on fist" too? - Yes.
I see. And ...
"What do we want to drink" too?
"The soft water"? - Yes.
Many have bad taste.
Complete porridge.
You can see that
from the last federal election. - Yes.
This is unbearable.
I tolerate them anyway.
Where did the left stand, at 4.9? - Yes.
But you have still
saved your ass.
By Sören Pellmann in Leipzig,
who was under the umbrella of the opponents.
Why only 4.9%?
Have you not made any effort?
Because we did not put Sahra Wagenknecht
did not go to the front.
Then we would have been at 12, 15 %.
At 12, 15 or 12.5 %? - 12 to 15.
2,12?
We would have had 12 to 15 %,
Sahra Wagenknecht would have been
as candidate for chancellor
has been nominated.
What would Sahra
given us in wrapping paper?
I believe
most of the points she makes,
are much more realistic
than the vast majority.
That is why, according to polls
she is the second most popular politician.
So, now it's your turn.
Now we'll show ... Yes yes.
Coulda, woulda, ass-burger.
Now comes that again.
If I had been in politics,
I would have had 98%.
You asked
why the left is only at 4.9.
That's an uninteresting answer.
We'll see the next ...
Oh. - Golden records.
Mm.
Not that you say,
we are demonstrating.
Isn't that with you?
It is, but what is the point now?
We show
Your Golden Records.
Not that people think,
Krömer just wants to bullshit.
No, no, great.
We show ...
One, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine can be seen.
Yes, a few are not in the picture.
The point was not to show them.
Is that at your home or
do you always take the plates with you?
Yes, that's exactly how I do it.
Are you in a good mood?
Yes!
You look a little bitter.
No!
I was infected by your bitter
I was infected by your bitter look.
Are you at operating temperature?
Really fit. Yes.
You must be able to do that as a politician.
I think so too, but hello.
Would you give up all the
Records all give up,
if in return Germany
leaves NATO? - Yes.
You would now have
the chance to get a full set.
I would prefer NATO to be
would be broken up and dissolved,
replaced by a peace alliance,
to which Russia also belongs. - Mhm.
You were
Katharina Witt's manager. - Mhm.
Between 1990 and 1996
made with her the TV musical
"The Ice Princess". - Longer still.
What socialist cause was
was it about? Expropriation of Langnese?
The fairy tale even has
a socialist concern,
which was played again and again on ARD
played on Christmas Eve.
Is that so? - Yes.
Isn't that where "The Little Lord" comes from?
Always Mrs. Witt?
No, back then.
In any case, it is an ARD product
and it's also about that,
how the charcoal burners in the country
against a rapacious chancellor ...
Capitalist, ne, again.
Or Chancellor, which is set in the
You have to transpose.
A critical political piece.
It has a critical touch.
So for children just barely,
without being told:
FDJ indoctrination of young children.
It's a bit critical, yes.
But you certainly didn't do it
because you wanted to make a profit.
I didn't have any of them,
if I remember correctly.
I see. Did you give everything
Mrs. Witt as a gift?
No, I think,
there was a buy-out and only then,
when the eleventh or twelfth time
is played on ARD
and the tenth time the ARD ...
You have earned nothing from it?
Deserved
I would have deserved much more anyway.
What did you earn? 9, 10 marks?
I composed the music.
You must have
have said at some point:
"Let me out,
I have enough money."
But that is your prejudice!
Proper left-wing entrepreneurs
must also earn.
Yes, so you do deserve.
They are not monopoly capitalists,
who make money from the misery of others.
Did you earn money from it?
Because the songs
are a hardship for you,
have I profited from hardship?
So you have profited.
At the plight of Kurt Krömer,
to have to listen to these songs.
'97, there I was ...
Everyone else was happy.
With the musical by Katharina Witt
you have earned after all.
I should have earned more,
I gave you...
Not that you will become
become a multimillionaire as a Marxist.
You think the songs suck ...
I didn't say that.
They said,
You think my songs are all crap.
No, I did not say that.
I did. - I may have said
"grits", but not shit.
All right.
You don't do that.
After all, you are a man with...
After all, you are a guest.
That's no way to treat guests.
True.
You didn't say shit,
but it was meant. - Yes, grits.
Grits, exactly.
It's a matter of taste.
I am a Marxist.
Haha, how funny.
But it's funny,
when someone is a multimillionaire...
As a comedian, you have to be funny.
Sure, I'm the ...
What would you say? - Comedian.
If you talk about me tomorrow?
Comedian.
The clown from state radio or something?
No, I didn't say that.
No, I never said "Krömermann" either.
said. That's what I was told.
Shall we rewind?
I never said "Krömermann.
State radio, right?
Is that the speech?
I consider Böhmermann to be
a harlequin of the state. - Yes?
But not you, no.
No. Böhmermann?
Do we want to
about Böhmermann? - Gladly.
But not now.
It's stupid, he's not there.
I see.
But...
You do not talk about people,
who are not in the room? - Yes, you are.
But that would be
a bit stupid.
He does five shows against me,
doesn't even invite me.
They get to chatting.
You may say what you want,
but not for too long.
12 minutes,
almost half over.
No! - Can you still?
Do you want to lie down for a moment?
No, we can do that.
Katharina Witt
took her clothes off for Playboy back then.
For free, I suppose.
M-m!
She got the money,
You, of course, did not.
I was also involved because
get a commission as a manager.
Two, three notebooks? * Woman laughs. *
No, a little more. Haha.
Above ...
The neighbors are having a party.
Is she paid for the fact
that she always laughs?
Yes, we wanted to invite
invite audience.
But when they heard,
Diether Dehm is coming...
No one came.
No one. Look, please.
No, I...
There could have been one or two.
There is no one at all.
Oh, now everything is broken.
Oh, my transmitter.
Is that my station? - No, mine.
Can we have a new channel
or a new guest?
We'll see what's more profitable.
(laughs artificially) Yes.
Can you get it?
Yes, I can.
Is that a Bavarian janker you're wearing?
you're wearing? - Yes.
Are you from Bavaria?
No, but I like these Janker.
I noticed that when I was researching:
They have shirts like this.
Oh no. - Don't be
don't be so stupid.
You're doing it on purpose.
No. You have blue fingernails.
Yes, I sometimes paint my fingers blue
I paint my fingers blue when I'm in a good mood.
Can you hold it like that?
Yes, good, that's exactly how we do it.
Hold a little higher.
If it grinds now ...
Mr. Mielke,
did we get that from the sound?
Beautiful name.
Or do we want to send in a sound man
in, maybe?
It looks silly.
Oh, it works.
Then everyone will say, I'm showing you up.
No, no one will ever say that.
I suppress laughter.
* Clack *
Hello!
Come in, it's open.
Mr. Dehm has deliberately
the thing on the floor.
Where is the other part? There.
Oops.
Go ahead and ask.
Yes.
(coughs) No, for the
We need clay for the next chapter.
That's about Wolf Biermann.
Yes.
You managed that?
After his expatriation
from the GDR.
Now, of course, we have to
talk about the Stasi. - Yes.
They're taking out the piece of paper now,
where it says that you were not
with the Stasi. - Good.
I show the MAZ at the same time,
where Wolf Biermann says,
You were with the Stasi.
No, first he comes,
then me.
"Do you actually know why and how
we met?"
Just like an old pair of lovers.
"Do you remember the first time
saw each other for the first time?
Can you remember the bench
where we sat?"
Of course, one of the two
cannot remember then.
He said, "Well, at that time I had
the order of the state security,
to make a pass at you,
so that I could get you to be my manager...
mentored."
Well, what was going on there?
He's lying.
He's lying? - Yes.
But it didn't look like it to me.
It may not look like it.
Why should he lie?
Because it was his show to say:
"I come from the East,
is being persecuted,
come to the West
and the Stasi is back,
in the form of Diether Dehm."
I have a warrant here.
Why are you getting upset now...
I am annoyed about it,
because the man lies
and cites a one-on-one conversation.
He is not in the room.
I know. - One does not talk
ugly about others...
He has also
in absentia.
He claims ...
Why did you get so silly about it?
In a one-on-one conversation
I would have confessed to him,
to have worked for the Stasi.
Yes.
In this one-on-one conversation
no witness was present.
He simply lies and invents something.
What does he get out of it?
I have from the year ...
What does Wolf Biermann get out of it?
That he is putting on a show.
What kind of show?
He staged it, I managed it
for the Stasi.
Never would the Stasi
come up with the idea.
I have a warrant
from the Stasi. - Yes, I know.
That is what I announced to you.
Either we are the new
comedy duo that goes on tour
and I know that he
the note out now ...
You're welcome to it.
Here is a search warrant of the
Stasi against me from the year '78.
It says...
Why did you act so silly?
It says that I am with Biermann,
I am his representative in the GDR,
an entry search and an entry ban will be
an entry ban is imposed.
You can read about that here.
Yes, I know.
Why should the Stasi give me the task
to manage Biermann,
when she makes an APB
against me?
Why do you get such a pulse?
Because the guy is full of shit.
But that was on television,
everything is true. - Okay.
What have you been so silly about?
You are a Marxist after all.
That's where the Stasi has to be helped.
Biermann has made a turnaround.
He was for every NATO war.
Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan.
At that time, when I was
managed, was for peace,
sang peace songs.
He had to justify the turnaround
and he did that,
by
claimed at my expense.
But you are a Stasi informant.
No, I was never a Stasi informant.
Court decision of the
Frankfurt Regional Court in 1996.
From this ding one may say,
Diether Dehm is a Stasi informant.
Yes, that's what Mrs. Steinbach ...
That's even worse.
Mrs. Steinbach has obtained against me
obtained this judgment by ...
The Steinbach above all.
I would shoot myself in the knee.
The process lasted 20 minutes,
I was not there.
We have all never thought ...
Where have you been? - Somewhere completely different.
How, where, get cigarettes?
We firmly believed that the court
will never decide that.
I was acquitted
by the SPD party court.
But what kind of ...
If I am a spy ...
The Frankfurt State Court
has written that.
Superior Court.
If I had been a spy
of the East would have been,
it should have been according to § 98 of the Criminal Code
proceedings
against me.
The court has decided,
you are a Stasi informant.
Next question. No, I don't want to get
I don't want to get involved right now.
Why has no one ever ...
Question 14. we have 19 minutes.
Only Biermann claimed that
and you of all people
refer to Mrs. Steinbach.
Do you hear
through the glass badly? - What?
Already at the age of 15 you have Rudi Dutschke
and Cohn-Bendit to the Stasi ...
uh, did you hang out with them
and today, at 71, with Dieter
Hallervorden. Runs with you.
I didn't quite understand that.
Yes, I ...
(loud) They hung out with Rudi Dutschke
and Cohn-Bendit.
Today you are 71 and hang out with
Hallervorden. Works for you.
I demonstrated with Rudi Dutschke
demonstrated against the Vietnam War
and we occupied the stage in '67,
the Amerika-Haus, I was 17.
Now I have with Hallervorden
demonstrated at #AlarmstufeRot,
for independent artists,
that will be destroyed by the corona pandemic
will be destroyed. - Item.
And from politics.
Point, cut.
We cut everything to size.
Yes, I know.
They see conspiracy everywhere.
Not everywhere, but many.
In the editorial offices
NATO hacks would be sitting in the editorial offices,
Intelligence services infiltrated everything
and Wikipedia
is a manipulation machine.
Yes - The main writer of
Wikipedia articles, that is, with you,
is a certain Felix.
Yes.
And he is
comrade from the Left Party.
He was a comrade in the Left Party
and that happens by the way ...
If you times from May 2006,
May 17,
read more at Spiegel-Online,
the big swaps
of the journalists ...
We cannot now
read up on anything.
Conspiracy theorists
then always say:
"You should read the FAZ
from 1921 carefully
and at the bottom right is a reptile
and makes wink wink!" - Yes, yes.
We cannot investigate.
Mr. Krömer ...
The BND has 6,500 employees.
Do you think they hunt all Nazis?
6.500.
They have more employees
than the entire Bundestag.
Could it be that you are
paranoid? - No, and you?
No, I'm not being
persecuted by any people.
And how then do
depression come about?
You mean I'm depressed because
secret agents are after me?
No, but you imply
a psychological crack,
so I ask back.
But you're not depressed,
because you are being investigated by the CIA
or because Felix ...
Yes, that's my Felix up there.
I am not para... paranoid.
Paralympic, huh? - I believe that
Agents of the BND also in parties ...
Unfortunately, we have to ...
You are welcome to answer any
question, but must be brief.
We are now in the next chapter,
on your paranoia.
We look at the picture.
When the forests burned in Siberia,
Karl Lauterbach shared
a short film and noted,
the fires are the biggest
and most important for climate change.
A central hotspot
for climate change
would be in Putin's control.
Yes.
So, now it's your turn.
When forests burn,
is the government to blame?
Or is that only the case with Putin?
The next picture.
This is exactly the same picture.
Ei der Daus! What was going on there?
They took a screenshot and
said Lauterbach was making propaganda
for an imperialist
NATO war against Russia.
That seems paranoid to me,
Mr. Dehm.
But when he claims,
Putin is to blame for forest fires ...
Isn't that paranoid?
* Krömer laughs. *
Isn't that conspiracy theory?
That's who you are.
Putin was to blame for the forest fires.
It burned, he wrote about it.
Yes, but he said,
Putin is to blame.
Would you say that when
forests were burning in California,
the governor is to blame?
Then Putin is not to blame.
Very good.
* Krömer sighs. *
I feel a little sick.
No. - Yes.
Why? - Because it's exhausting for me.
No.
Are you paranoid or not?
I had severe depression,
I also stood by that.
If I were paranoid, I wouldn't know about myself.
I would not know it about myself.
They call the mainstream media
as a lying press. - Not true.
They have no fear of contact with
Russian broadcasters and Ken Jebsen.
Mainstream media?
I gave an interview to the Bild-Zeitung and
Ken Jebsen an interview.
That's a dirty rag.
We'll leave them out of it. - No.
I'm sitting with you, talking to Ken
Jebsen. What's the difference?
This is a Nazi.
No.
That is not a Nazi.
That's what you say.
Which Felix whispered
whispered to you? - That is not a Nazi.
He is.
He sometimes says some hard things.
A few Nazi slogans just.
Name me one
a Nazi slogan from him.
Not on the tip of my tongue.
Look! "At the bottom left it says ..."
Exactly, I would have now the FAZ ...
Exactly. You have to learn as well.
Shall we
put it in after the fact?
Can we do the same
as we did with the Stasi search warrant.
We've seen it before.
There you have ...
Is this a photocopy?
Yes, not a real original.
But at that time the Stasi ...
This is
your old circus Roncalli trick?
The Stasi
has made me an enemy of the state ...
Oh, oh, oh, 24.
* Clearing throat *
Interposed question: Do you still have a
still in love with Sahra Wagenknecht?
No, I think they're great.
Yes?
Was there something?
That was in the newspaper, wasn't it?
Where?
A few years ago. - Really?
That was just a joking question.
You were
with Sahra Wagenknecht?
If you say so now ...
Where did it say that?
Ingrid, write this down.
After 30 years of showbiz, a hit.
If you say so now ...
Diether Dehm.
* smacking noise *
What's wrong with him now?
He was together with Sahra Wagenknecht.
What was it like?
Tell me.
No, that's...
Don't you want to give anything away?
I don't have a crush anymore,
but I think she's great.
So, about the coronavirus you have
a song about the coronavirus. - Mhm.
We showed it to your former
party leader, Ms. Kipping.
Diether Dehm has
wrote a Corona song. - Mhm.
Let's take a listen.
# What does covid rhyme with?
In any case, profit
# I'm not gonna be threatened with #
# Oh no, no, no, no, no #
I think how Ms. Kipping
feels, there is a word for that:
Cringe.
That was the word?
Yes. - I do not know that.
Well, it was in the newspaper.
Can I say one thing?
Of course.
Not that you say afterwards ...
Isn't BioNTech currently in the process of
a huge profit business for BioNTech right now?
But that is
wonderful for capitalism.
He makes something
which hardly holds anything.
Already you need the second
vaccination, the third, the fourth.
Then the state makes sure
that it is bought again.
And all the media are
pushing and shoving BioNTech.
That's funny. - It's a good thing
I rhymed profit with covid.
Your statement leads to my question.
They text: "What rhymes with
Covid? Definitely profit."
Oh, I see, must be emphasized differently.
That was my mistake now.
"A young virus
plus ancient powers.
Yes, this mix
Makes you horny for our rights." - Yes.
What are the ancient powers?
Well, big business, for example.
If you are a taxpayer ...
What is big business again?
What is big business?
What is the major capital?
85% of the BioNTech ...
Mr. Dehm, we have to
start all over again.
You need to explain ...
Rewind.
If you
Fund 85% of BioNTech,
but which go public
and the vaccine patents remain private,
not be published,
not be given to poor countries,
then that is profit and Covid
rightly rhymes with profit.
You write about ancient powers.
Yes.
BioNTech has only been around since
since 2008. - That's right.
Monopolies and big business
have existed for a long time
and also the ancient powers that want to
want to destroy the fundamental rights.
Where is the journey taking us now?
What are the great powers of the past?
Well, those who ...
Just name names.
Rewe, Penny, Tengelmann, Kaiser's.
At that time, there were emergency ordinances.
Now scare tactics are being used to justify,
that there are new emergency regulations.
I am in favor of now lifting this
Covid emergency be lifted
and the fundamental rights
for all people,
vaccinated and unvaccinated,
persist.
This is the crucial point.
The rights that are to be taken away
are to be taken away, the fundamental rights,
are not negotiable.
Why don't you explain to me ...
I just said that.
I did not understand you.
Big business,
which benefits this state for it,
Fundamental rights ...
Which one?
Basic rights of trade unions.
Where does the capital come from?
The capital,
where does it come from?
The ...
From the powers, the great.
How capital is created?
Read from Karl Marx ...
We have 28:30, sorry.
You say ... - You ask...
Stop! We do not have so much time.
With the vaccines imperialist
imperialist policy with the vaccines.
They were vaccinated with the Russian
Sputnik vaccine. - Yes.
Aren't you playing the propaganda game
side playing the propaganda game?
Sputnik is the best vaccine
among the vector vaccines.
I spent a few semesters
I had to study medicine,
to get my doctorate
in psychosomatics and knows,
that Lancet can be trusted.
Lancet wrote ...
Come along.
Can you walk and talk?
That would be good now.
I have to
also still carry the thing.
So if you're here...
for protection and stuff. * He coughs. *
This was the Stasi informant
Diether Dehm, 71 years old.
You are now leaving
from the Bundestag.
Wouldn't it be nice to disappear into
to disappear into insignificance?
You have contributed to the fact
that I am resurrected today.
Subtitle: rbb 2021
Kerstin Ettlich